Jim Gilmore came to Hortons Bay from Canada. He bought the blacksmithshop from old man Horton. Jim was short and dark with big mustachesand big hands. He was a good horseshoer and did not look much like ablacksmith even with his leather apron on. He lived upstairs abovethe blacksmith shop and took his meals at A. J. Smith's.

Liz Coates worked for Smith's. Mrs. Smith, who was a very large cleanwoman, said Liz Coates was the neatest girl she'd ever seen. Liz hadgood legs and always wore clean gingham aprons and Jim noticed thather hair was always neat behind. He liked her face because it was sojolly but he never thought about her.

Liz liked Jim very much. She liked it the way he walked over from theshop and often went to the kitchen door to watch for him to startdown the road. She liked it about his mustache. She liked it abouthow white his teeth were when he smiled. She liked it very much thathe didn't look like a blacksmith. She liked it how much A. J. Smithand Mrs. Smith liked Jim. One day she found that she liked it the waythe hair was black on his arms and how white they were above thetanned line when he washed up in the washbasin outside the house.Liking that made her feel funny.

Hortons Bay, the town, was only five houses on the main road betweenBoyne City and Charlevoix. There was the general store and postofficewith a high false front and maybe a wagon hitched out in front,Smith's house, Stroud's house, Fox's house, Horton's house and VanHoosen's house. The houses were in a big grove of elm trees and theroad was very sandy. There was farming country and timber each way upthe road. Up the road a ways was the Methodist church and down theroad the other direction was the township school. The blacksmith shopwas painted red and faced the school.

A steep sandy road ran down the hill to the bay through the timber.From Smith's back door you could look out across the woods that randown to the lake and across the bay. It was very beautiful in thespring and summer, the bay blue and bright and usually whitecaps onthe lake out beyond the point from the breeze blowing from Charlevoixand Lake Michigan. From Smith's back door Liz could see ore bargesway out in the lake going toward Boyne City. When she looked at themthey didn't seem to be moving at all but if she went in and driedsome more dishes and then came out again they would be out of sightbeyond the point.

All the time now Liz was thinking about Jim Gilmore. He didn't seemto notice her much. He talked about the shop to A. J. Smith and aboutthe Republican Party and about James G. Blaine. In the evenings heread the Toledo Blade and the Grand Rapids paper by the lamp in thefront room or went out spearing fish in the bay with a jacklight withA. J. Smith. In the fall he and Smith and Charley Wyman took a wagonand tent, grub, axes, their rifles and two dogs and went on a trip tothe pine plains beyond Vanderbilt deer hunting. Liz and Mrs. Smithwere cooking for four days for them before they started. Liz wantedto make something special for Jim to take but she didn't finallybecause she was afraid to ask Mrs. Smith for the eggs and flour andafraid if she bought them Mrs. Smith would catch her cooking. Itwould have been all right with Mrs. Smith but Liz was afraid.

All the time Jim was gone on the deer hunting trip Liz thought abouthim. It was awful while he was gone. She couldn't sleep well fromthinking about him but she discovered it was fun to think about himtoo. If she let herself go it was better. The night before they wereto come back she didn't sleep at all, that is she didn't think sheslept because it was all mixed up in a dream about not sleeping andreally not sleeping. When she saw the wagon coming down the road shefelt weak and sick sort of inside. She couldn't wait till she saw Jimand it seemed as though everything would be all right when he came.The wagon stopped outside under the big elm and Mrs. Smith and Lizwent out. All the men had beards and there were three deer in theback of the wagon, their thin legs sticking stiff over the edge ofthe wagon box. Mrs. Smith kissed Alonzo and he hugged her. Jim said"Hello Liz." and grinned. Liz hadn't known just what would happenwhen Jim got back but she was sure it would be something. Nothing hadhappened. The men were just home that was all. Jim pulled the burlapsacks off the deer and Liz looked at them. One was a big buck. It wasstiff and hard to lift out of the wagon.

"Did you shoot it Jim?" Liz asked.

"Yeah. Aint it a beauty?" Jim got it onto his back to carry to thesmokehouse.

That night Charley Wyman stayed to supper at Smith's. It was too lateto get back to Charlevoix. The men washed up and waited in the frontroom for supper.

"Aint there something left in that crock Jimmy?" A. J. Smith askedand Jim went out to the wagon in the barn and fetched in the jug ofwhiskey the men had taken hunting with them. It was a four gallon jugand there was quite a little slopped back and forth in the bottom.Jim took a long pull on his way back to the house. It was hard tolift such a big jug up to drink out of it. Some of the whiskey randown on his shirt front. The two men smiled when Jim came in with thejug. A. J. Smith sent for glasses and Liz brought them. A. J. pouredout three big shots.

"Well here's looking at you A. J." said Charley Wyman.

"That damn big buck Jimmy." said A. J.

"Here's all the ones we missed A. J." said Jim and downed his liquor.

"Tastes good to a man."

"Nothing like it this time of year for what ails you."

"How about another boys?"

"Here's how A. J."

"Down the creek boys."

"Here's to next year."

Jim began to feel great. He loved the taste and the feel of whisky.He was glad to be back to a comfortable bed and warm food and theshop. He had another drink. The men came in to supper feelinghilarious but acting very respectable. Liz sat at the table after sheput on the food and ate with the family. It was a good dinner. Themen ate seriously. After supper they went into the front room againand Liz cleaned off with Mrs. Smith. Then Mrs. Smith went up stairsand pretty soon Smith came out and went up stairs too. Jim andCharley were still in the front room. Liz was sitting in the kitchennext to the stove pretending to read a book and thinking about Jim.She didn't want to go to bed yet because she knew Jim would be comingout and she wanted to see him as he went out so she could take theway he looked up to bed with her.

She was thinking about him hard and then Jim came out. His eyes wereshining and his hair was a little rumpled. Liz looked down at herbook. Jim came over back of her chair and stood there and she couldfeel him breathing and then he put his arms around her. Her breastsfelt plump and firm and the nipples were erect under his hands. Lizwas terribly frightened, no one had ever touched her, but shethought, "He's come to me finally. He's really come."

She held herself stiff because she was so frightened and did not knowanything else to do and then Jim held her tight against the chair andkissed her. It was such a sharp, aching, hurting feeling that shethought she couldn't stand it. She felt Jim right through the back ofthe chair and she couldn't stand it and then something clicked insideof her and the feeling was warmer and softer. Jim held her tight hardagainst the chair and she wanted it now and Jim whispered, "Come onfor a walk."

Liz took her coat off the peg on the kitchen wall and they went outthe door. Jim had his arm around her and every little way theystopped and pressed against each other and Jim kissed her. There wasno moon and they walked ankle deep in the sandy road through thetrees down to the dock and the warehouse on the bay. The water waslapping in the piles and the point was dark across the bay. It wascold but Liz was hot all over from being with Jim. They sat down inthe shelter of the warehouse and Jim pulled Liz close to him. She wasfrightened. One of Jim's hands went inside her dress and stroked overher breast and the other hand was in her lap. She was very frightenedand didn't know how he was going to go about things but she snuggledclose to him. Then the hand that felt so big in her lap went away andwas on her leg and started to move up it.

"Don't Jim". Liz said. Jim slid the hand further up.

"You musn't Jim. You musn't". Neither Jim nor Jim's big hand paid anyattention to her.

The boards were hard. Jim had her dress up and was trying to dosomething to her. She was frightened but she wanted it. She had tohave it but it frightened her.

"You musn't do it Jim. You musn't."

"I got to. I'm going to. You know we got to."

"No we haven't Jim. We aint got to. Oh it isn't right. Oh it's so bigand it hurts so. You can't. Oh Jim. Jim. Oh."

The hemlock planks of the dock were hard and splintery and cold andJim was heavy on her and he had hurt her. Liz pushed him, she was souncomfortable and cramped. Jim was asleep. He wouldn't move. Sheworked out from under him and sat up and straightened her skirt andcoat and tried to do something with her hair. Jim was sleeping withhis mouth a little open. Liz leaned over and kissed him on the cheek.He was still asleep. She lifted his head a little and shook it. Herolled his head over and swallowed. Liz started to cry. She walkedover to the edge of the dock and looked down to the water. There wasa mist coming up from the bay. She was cold and miserable andeverything felt gone. She walked back to where Jim was lying andshook him once more to make sure. She was crying.

"Jim" she said, "Jim. Please Jim".

Jim stirred and curled a little tighter. Liz took off her coat andleaned over and covered him with it. She tucked it around him neatlyand carefully. Then she walked across the dock and up the steep sandyroad to go to bed. A cold mist was coming up through the woods fromthe bay.



OUT OF SEASON

OUT OF SEASON

On the four lira he had earned by spading the hotel garden he gotquite drunk. He saw the young gentleman coming down the path andspoke to him mysteriously. The young gentleman said he had not eatenyet but would be ready to go as soon as lunch was finished. Fortyminutes or an hour.

At the cantina near the bridge they trusted him for three moregrappas because he was so confident and mysterious about his job forthe afternoon. It was a windy day with the sun coming out from behindclouds and then going under in sprinkles of rain. A wonderful day fortrout fishing.

The young gentleman came out of the hotel and asked him about therods. Should his wife come behind with the rods? Yes, said Peduzzi,let her follow us. The young gentleman went back into the hotel andspoke to his wife. He and Peduzzi started down the road. The younggentleman had a musette over his shoulder. Peduzzi saw the wife, wholooked as young as the young gentleman and was wearing mountain bootsand a blue beret, start out to follow them down the road carrying thefishing rods unjointed one in each hand. Peduzzi didn't like her tobe way back there. Signorina, he called, winking at the younggentleman, come up here and walk with us. Signora come up here. Letus all walk together. Peduzzi wanted them all three to walk down thestreet of Cortina together.

The wife stayed behind, following rather sullenly. Signorina, Peduzzicalled tenderly, come up here with us. The young gentleman lookedback and shouted something. The wife stopped lagging behind, andwalked up.

Everyone they met walking through the main street of the town Peduzzigreeted elaborately. _Buon' di Arturo!_ Tipping his hat. The bankclerk stared at him from the door of the Fascist café. Groups ofthree and four people standing in front of the shops stared at thethree. The workmen in their stone-powdered jackets working on thefoundations of the new hotel looked up as they passed. Nobody spokeor gave any sign to them except the town beggar, lean and old with aspittle thickened beard, who lifted his hat as they passed.

Peduzzi stopped in front of a store with the window full of bottlesand brought his empty grappa bottle from an inside pocket of his oldmilitary coat. A little to drink, some marsala for the Signora,something, something to drink. He gestured with the bottle. It was awonderful day. Marsala, you like marsala, Signorina? A littlemarsala?

The wife stood sullenly. You'll have to play up to this, she said. Ican't understand a word he says. He's drunk isn't he?

The young gentleman appeared not to hear Peduzzi. He was thinkingwhat in hell makes him say Marsala. That's what Max Beerbohm drinks.

_Geld,_ Peduzzi said finally, taking hold of the young gentleman'ssleeve. _Lire._ He smiled reluctant to press the subject but needingto bring the young gentleman into action.

The young gentleman took out his pocket book and gave him a ten lirenote. Peduzzi went up the steps to the door of the Speciality ofDomestic and Foreign Wines shop. It was locked.

It is closed until two, someone passing in the street saidscornfully. Peduzzi came down the steps. He felt hurt. Never mind, hesaid, we can get it at the Concordia.

They walked down the road to the Concordia three abreast. On theporch of the Concordia where the rusty bobsleds were stacked theyoung gentleman said, _Was wollen sie?_ Peduzzi handed him the tenlira note folded over and over. Nothing, he said, Anything. He wasembarrassed. Marsala maybe. I don't know. Marsala?

The door of the Concordia shut on the young gentleman and the wife.Three marsalas, said the y. g. to the girl behind the pastry counter.Two you mean? she asked. No, he said, one for a _vecchio._ Oh, shesaid, a _vecchio,_ and laughed getting down the bottle. She pouredout the three muddy looking drinks into three glasses. The wife wassitting at a table under the line of newspapers on sticks. The y. g.put one of the marsalas in front of her. You might as well drink it,he said. Maybe it'll make you feel better. She sat and looked at theglass. The y. g. went outside the door with a glass for Peduzzi butcould not see him.

I don't know where he is, he said coming back into the pastry roomcarrying the glass.

He wanted a quart of it, said the wife.

How much is a quarter litre, the y. g. asked the girl.

Of the bianco? One lira.

No, of the marsala. Put these two in too, he said giving her his ownglass and the one poured for Peduzzi. She filled the quarter litrewine measure with a funnel. A bottle to carry it, said the y. g.

She went to hunt for a bottle. It all amused her.

I'm sorry you feel so rotten Tiny, he said, I'm sorry I talked theway I did at lunch. We were both getting at the same thing fromdifferent angles.

It doesn't make any difference, she said. None of it makes anydifference.

Are you too cold, he asked. I wish you'd worn another sweater.

I've got on three sweaters.

The girl came in with a very slim brown bottle and poured the marsalainto it. The y. g. paid five lira more. They went out of the door.The girl was amused. Peduzzi was walking up and down at the other endout of the wind and holding the rods.

Come on, he said, I will carry the rods. What difference does it makeif anybody sees them. No one will trouble us. No one will make anytrouble for me in Cortina. I know them at the _municipio._ I havebeen a soldier. Everybody in this town likes me. I sell frogs. Whatif it is forbidden to fish? Not a thing. Nothing. No trouble. Bigtrout I tell you. Lots of them.

They were walking down the hill toward the river. The town was inback of them. The sun had gone under and it was sprinkling rain.There, said Peduzzi, pointing to a girl in the doorway of a housethey passed. My daughter.

His doctor, the wife said, has he got to show us his doctor?

He said his daughter, said the y. g.

The girl went into the house as Peduzzi pointed.

They walked down the hill across the fields and then turned to followthe river bank. Peduzzi talked rapidly with much winking andknowingness. As they walked three abreast the wife caught his breathacross the wind. Once he nudged her in the ribs. Part of the time hetalked in D'Ampezzo dialect and sometimes in Tyroler German dialect.He could not make out which the young gentleman and his wifeunderstood the best so he was being bi-lingual. But as the younggentleman said _Ja Ja_ Peduzzi decided to talk altogether in Tyroler.The young gentleman and the wife understood nothing.

Everybody in the town saw us going through with these rods. We'reprobably being followed by the game police now. I wish we weren't inon this damn thing. This damned old fool is so drunk too.

Of course you haven't got the guts to just go back, said the wife. Ofcourse you have to go on.

Why don't you go back? Go on back Tiny.

I'm going to stay with you. If you go to jail we might as well bothgo.

They turned sharp down the bank and Peduzzi stood his coat blowing inthe wind gesturing at the river. It was brown and muddy. Off on theright there was a dump heap.

Say it to me in Italian, said the young gentleman

_Un' mezz' ora. Piu d' un' mezz' ora._

He says it's at least a half an hour more. Go on back Tiny. You'recold in this wind anyway. It's a rotten day and we aren't going tohave any fun anyway.

All right, she said, and climbed up the grassy bank.

Peduzzi was down at the river and did not notice her till she wasalmost out of sight over the crest. Frau! he shouted. Frau! Fraulein!You're not going? She went on over the crest of the hill.

She's gone! said Peduzzi. It shocked him.

He took off the rubber bands that held the rod segments together andcommenced to joint up one of the rods.

But you said it was half an hour further.

Oh yes. It is good half an hour down. It is good here too.

Really?

Of course. It is good here and good there too.

The y. g. sat down on the bank and jointed up a rod, put on the reeland threaded the line through the guides. He felt uncomfortable andafraid that any minute a gamekeeper or a posse of citizens would comeover the bank from the town. He could see the houses of the town andthe campanile over the edge of the hill. He opened his leader box.Peduzzi leaned over and dug his flat hard thumb and forefinger in andtangled the moistened leaders.

Have you some lead?

No.

You must have some lead. Peduzzi was excited. You must have _piombo.Piombo._ A little _piombo._ Just here. Just above the hook or yourbait will float on the water. You must have it. Just a little_piombo._

Have you got some?

No. He looked through all his pockets desperately. Sifting throughthe cloth dirt in the linings of his inside military pockets. Ihaven't any. We must have _piombo._

We can't fish then, said the y. g. and unjointed the rod, reeling theline back through the guides. We'll get some _piombo_ and fishtomorrow.

But listen _caro,_ you must have _piombo._ The line will lie flat onthe water. Peduzzi's day was going to pieces before his eyes. Youmust have _piombo._ A little is enough. Your stuff is all clean andnew but you have no lead. I would have brought some. You said you hadeverything.

The y. g. looked at the stream discoloured by the melting snow. Iknow, he said, we'll get some _piombo_ and fish tomorrow.

At what hour in the morning? Tell me that.

At seven.

The sun came out. It was warm and pleasant. The young gentleman feltrelieved. He was no longer breaking the law. Sitting on the bank hetook the bottle of marsala out of his pocket and passed it toPeduzzi. Peduzzi passed it back. The y. g. took a drink of it andpassed it to Peduzzi again. Peduzzi passed it back again. Drink, hesaid, drink. It's your marsala. After another short drink the y. g.handed the bottle over. Peduzzi had been watching it closely. He tookthe bottle very hurriedly and tipped it up. The grey hairs in thefolds of his neck oscillated as he drank his eyes fixed on the end ofthe narrow brown bottle. He drank it all. The sun shone while hedrank. It was wonderful. This was a great day after all. A wonderfulday.

_Senta caro!_ In the morning at seven. He had called the younggentleman _caro_ several times and nothing had happened. It was goodmarsala. His eyes glistened. Days like this stretched out ahead. Itwould begin again at seven in the morning.

They started to walk up the hill toward the town. The y. g. went onahead. He was quite a way up the hill. Peduzzi called to him.

Listen _caro_ can you let me take five lira for a favour?

For today? asked the young gentleman frowning.

No, not today. Give it to me today for tomorrow. I will provideeverything for tomorrow. _Pane, salami, formaggio,_ good stuff forall of us. You and I and the signora. Bait for fishing, minnows, notworms only. Perhaps I can get some marsala. All for five lira. Fivelira for a favour.

The young gentleman looked through his pocket book and took out a twolira note and two ones.

Thank you _caro_. Thank you, said Peduzzi in the tone of one memberof the Carleton Club accepting the Morning Post from another. Thiswas living. He was through with the hotel garden, breaking up frozenmanure with a dung fork. Life was opening out.

Until seven o'clock then _caro,_ he said, slapping the y. g. on theback. Promptly at seven.

I may not be going, said the young gentleman putting his purse backin his pocket.

What, said Peduzzi. I will have minnows Signor. _Salami,_ everything.You and I and the Signora. The three of us.

I may not be going, said the y. g., very probably not. I will leaveword with the padrone at the hotel office.



MY OLD MAN

MY OLD MAN

I guess looking at it now my old man was cut out for a fat guy, oneof those regular little roly fat guys you see around, but he surenever got that way, except a little toward the last, and then itwasn't his fault, he was riding over the jumps only and he couldafford to carry plenty of weight then. I remember the way he'd pullon a rubber shirt over a couple of jerseys and a big sweat shirt overthat and get me to run with him in the forenoon in the hot sun. He'dhave maybe taken a trial trip with one of Razzo's skins early in themorning after just getting in from Torino at four o'clock in themorning and beating it out to the stables in a cab and then with thedew all over everything and the sun just starting to get going I'dhelp him pull off his boots and he'd get into a pair of sneakers andall these sweaters and we'd start out.

"Come on kid" he'd say, stepping up and down on his toes in front ofthe jock's dressing room, "let's get moving".

Then we'd start off jogging around the infield once maybe with himahead running nice and then turn out the gate and along one of thoseroads with all the trees along both sides of them that run out fromSan Siro. I'd go ahead of him when we hit the road and I could runpretty stout and I'd look around and he'd be jogging easy just behindme and after a little while I'd look around again and he'd begun tosweat. Sweating heavy and he'd just be dogging it along with his eyeson my back, but when he'd catch me looking at him he'd grin and say,"Sweating plenty?" When my old man grinned nobody could help but grintoo. We'd keep right on running out toward the mountains and then myold man would yell "Hey Joe!" and I'd look back and he'd be sittingunder a tree with a towel he'd had around his waist wrapped aroundhis neck.

I'd come back and sit down beside him and he'd pull a rope out of hispocket and start skipping rope out in the sun with the sweat pouringoff his face and him skipping rope out in the white dust with therope going cloppetty cloppety clop clop clop and the sun hotter andhim working harder up and down a patch of the road. Say it was atreat to see my old man skip rope too. He could whirr it fast or lopit slow and fancy. Say you ought to have seen wops look at ussometimes when they'd come by going into town walking along with bigwhite steers hauling the cart. They sure looked as though theythought the old man was nuts. He'd start the rope whirring tillthey'd stop dead still and watch him, then give the steers a cluckand a poke with the goad and get going again.

When I'd sit watching him working out in the hot sun I sure felt fondof him. He sure was fun and he done his work so hard and he'd finishup with a regular whirring that'd drive the sweat out on his facelike water and then sling the rope at the tree and come over and sitdown with me and lean back against the tree with the towel and asweater wrapped around his neck.

"Sure is hell keeping it down, Joe" he'd say and lean back and shuthis eyes and breath long and deep, "it aint like when you're a kid".Then he'd get up before he started to cool and we'd jog along back tothe stables. That's the way it was keeping down to weight. He wasworried all the time. Most jocks can just about ride off all theywant to. A jock loses about a kilo every time he rides, but my oldman was sort of dried out and he couldn't keep down his kilos withoutall that running.

I remember once at San Siro, Regoli, a little wop that was riding forBuzoni came out across the paddock going to the bar for somethingcool and flicking his boots with his whip, after he'd just weighed inand my old man had just weighed in too and came out with the saddleunder his arm looking red faced and tired and too big for his silksand he stood there looking at young Regoli standing up to theoutdoors bar cool and kid looking and I says, "What's the matterDad?" cause I thought maybe Regoli had bumped him or something and hejust looked at Regoli and said, "Oh to hell with it" and went on tothe dressing room.

Well it would have been all right maybe if we'd stayed in Milan andridden at Milan and Torino cause if there ever were any easy coursesits those two. "Pianola, Joe". My old man said when he dismounted inthe winning stall after what the wops thought was a hell of asteeplechase. I asked him once, "This course rides its-self. It's thepace you're going at that makes riding the jumps dangerous Joe. Weaint going any pace here, and they aint any really bad jumps either.But it's the pace always—not the jumps that makes the trouble".

San Siro was the swellest course I'd ever seen but the old man saidit was a dog's life. Going back and forth between Mirafiore and SanSiro and riding just about every day in the week with a train rideevery other night.

I was nuts about the horses too. There's something about it when theycome out and go up the track to the post. Sort of dancy and tightlooking with the jock keeping a tight hold on them and maybe easingoff a little and letting them run a little going up. Then once theywere at the barrier it got me worse than anything. Especially at SanSiro with that big green infield and the mountains way off and thefat wop starter with his big whip and the jocks fiddling them aroundand then the barrier snapping up and that bell going off and them allgetting off in a bunch and then commencing to string out. You knowthe way a bunch of skins gets off. If you're up in the stand with apair of glasses all you see is them plunging off and then that bellgoes off and it seems like it rings for a thousand years and thenthey come sweeping round the turn. There wasn't ever anything like itfor me.

But my old man said one day in the dressing room when he was gettinginto his street clothes, "None of these things are horses Joe. They'dkill that bunch of skates for their hides and hoofs up at Paris".That was the day he'd won the Premio Commercio with Lantorna shootingher out of the field the last hundred meters like pulling a cork outof a bottle.

It was right after the Premio Commercio that we pulled out and leftItaly. My old man and Holbrook and a fat wop in a straw hat that keptwiping his face with a handkerchief were having an argument at atable in the Galleria. They were all talking French and the two ofthem were after my old man about something. Finally he didn't sayanything any more but just sat there and looked at Holbrook and thetwo of them kept after him, first one talking and then the other andthe fat wop always butting in on Holbrook.

"You go out and buy me a Sportsman, will you Joe?" my old man saidand handed me a couple of _soldi_ without looking away from Holbrook.

So I went out of the Galleria and walked over to in front of theScala and bought a paper and came back and stood a little way awaybecause I didn't want to butt in and my old man was sitting back inhis chair looking down at his coffee and fooling with a spoon andHolbrook and the big wop were standing and the big wop was wiping hisface and shaking his head. And I came up and my old man acted just asthough the two of them weren't standing there and said, "Want an iceJoe?" Holbrook looked down at my old man and said slow and careful,"You son of a bitch" and he and the fat wop went out through thetables.

My old man sat there and sort of smiled at me but his face was whiteand he looked sick as hell and I was scared and felt sick insidebecause I knew something had happened and I didn't see how anybodycould call my old man a son of a bitch and get away with it. My oldman opened up the Sportsman and studied the handicaps for a while andthen he said, "You got to take a lot of things in this world Joe".And three days later we left Milan for good on the Turin train forParis after an auction sale out in front of Turner's stables ofeverything we couldn't get into a trunk and a suit case.

We got into Paris early in the morning in a long dirty station theold man told me was the Gare de Lyon. Paris was an awful big townafter Milan. Seems like in Milan everybody is going somewhere and allthe trams run somewhere and there aint any sort of a mixup, but Parisis all balled up and they never do straighten it out. I got to likeit though, part of it anyway, and say it's got the best race coursesin the world. Seems as though that were the thing that keeps it allgoing and about the only thing you can figure on is that every daythe buses will be going out to whatever track they're running atgoing right out through everything to the track. I never really gotto know Paris well because I just came in about once or twice a weekwith the old man from Maisons and he always sat at the Cafe de laPaix on the Opera side with the rest of the gang from Maisons and Iguess that's one of the busiest parts of the town. But say it isfunny that a big town like Paris wouldn't have a Galleria isn't it?

Well, we went out to live at Maisons-Lafitte, where just abouteverybody lives except the gang at Chantilly, with a Mrs. Meyers thatruns a boarding house. Maisons is about the swellest place to liveI've ever seen in all my life. The town aint so much, but there's alake and a swell forest that we used to go off bumming in all day, acouple of us kids, and my old man made me a sling shot and we got alot of things with it but the best one was a magpie. Young DickAtkinson shot a rabbit with it one day and we put it under a tree andwere all sitting around and Dick had some cigarettes and all of asudden the rabbit jumped up and beat it into the brush and we chasedit but we couldn't find it. Gee we had fun at Maisons. Mrs. Meyersused to give me lunch in the morning and I'd be gone all day. Ilearned to talk French quick. It's an easy language.

As soon as we got to Maisons my old man wrote to Milan for hislicense and he was pretty worried till it came. He used to sit aroundthe Cafe de Paris in Maisons with the gang there, there were lots ofguys he'd known when he rode up at Paris before the war lived atMaisons, and there's a lot of time to sit around because the workaround a racing stable for the jocks that is, is all cleaned up bynine o'clock in the morning. They take the first batch of skins outto gallop them at 5.30 in the morning and they work the second lot at8 o'clock. That means getting up early all right and going to bedearly too. If a jock's riding for somebody too he can't go boozingaround because the trainer always has an eye on him if he's a kid andif he aint a kid he's always got an eye on himself. So mostly if ajock aint working he sits around the Café de Paris with the gang andthey can all sit around about two or three hours in front of somedrink like a vermouth and seltz and they talk and tell stories andshoot pool and it's sort of like a club or the Galleria in Milan.Only it aint really like the Galleria because there everybody isgoing by all the time and there's everybody around at the tables.

Well my old man got his license all right. They sent it through tohim without a word and he rode a couple of times. Amiens, up countryand that sort of thing, but he didn't seem to get any engagement.Everybody liked him and whenever I'd come in to the Café in theforenoon I'd find somebody drinking with him because my old manwasn't tight like most of these jockey's that have got the firstdollar they made riding at the World's Fair in St. Louis in Nineteenought four. That's what my old man would say when he'd kid GeorgeBurns. But it seemed like everybody steered clear of giving my oldman any mounts.

We went out to wherever they were running every day with the car fromMaisons and that was the most fun of all. I was glad when the horsescame back from Deauville and the summer. Even though it meant no morebumming in the woods, cause then we'd ride to Enghien or Tremblay orSt. Cloud and watch them from the trainers' and jockeys' stand. Isure learned about racing from going out with that gang and the funof it was going every day.

I remember once out at St. Cloud. It was a big two hundred thousandfranc race with seven entries and Kzar a big favourite. I went aroundto the paddock to see the horses with my old man and you never sawsuch horses. This Kzar is a great big yellow horse that looks likejust nothing but run. I never saw such a horse. He was being ledaround the paddock with his head down and when he went by me I feltall hollow inside he was so beautiful. There never was such awonderful, lean, running built horse. And he went around the paddockputting his feet just so and quiet and careful and moving easy likehe knew just what he had to do and not jerking and standing up on hislegs and getting wild eyed like you see these selling platers with ashot of dope in them. The crowd was so thick I couldn't see him againexcept just his legs going by and some yellow and my old man startedout through the crowd and I followed him over to the jock's dressingroom back in the trees and there was a big crowd around there too butthe man at the door in a derby nodded to my old man and we got in andeverybody was sitting around and getting dressed and pulling shirtsover their heads and pulling boots on and it all smelled hot andsweaty and linimenty and outside was the crowd looking in.

The old man went over and sat down beside George Gardner that wasgetting into his pants and said, "What's the dope George?" just in anordinary tone of voice cause there aint any use him feeling aroundbecause George either can tell him or he can't tell him.

"He won't win" George says very low, leaning over and buttoning thebottoms of his pants.

"Who will" my old man says leaning over close so nobody can hear.

"Kircubbin" George says, "And if he does, save me a couple oftickets".

My old man says something in a regular voice to George and Georgesays, "Don't ever bet on anything I tell you" kidding like and webeat it out and through all the crowd that was looking in over to the100 franc mutuel machine. But I knew something big was up becauseGeorge is Kzar's jockey. On the way he gets one of the yellow oddssheets with the starting prices on and Kzar is only paying 5 for 10,Cefisidote is next at 3 to I and fifth down the list this Kircubbinat 8 to 1. My old man bets five thousand on Kircubbin to win and putson a thousand to place and we went around back of the grandstand togo up the stairs and get a place to watch the race.

We were jammed in tight and first a man in a long coat with a greytall hat and a whip folded up in his hand came out and then one afteranother the horses, with the jocks up and a stable boy holding thebridle on each side and walking along, followed the old guy. That bigyellow horse Kzar came first. He didn't look so big when you firstlooked at him until you saw the length of his legs and the whole wayhe's built and the way he moves. Gosh I never saw such a horse.George Gardner was riding him and they moved along slow, back of theold guy in the gray tall hat that walked along like he was the ringmaster in a circus. Back of Kzar, moving along smooth and yellow inthe sun, was a good looking black with a nice head with TommyArchibald riding him and after the black was a string of five morehorses all moving along slow in a procession past the grandstand andthe pesage. My old man said the black was Kircubbin and I took a goodlook at him and he was a nice looking horse all right but nothinglike Kzar.

Everybody cheered Kzar when he went by and he sure was one swelllooking horse. The procession of them went around on the other sidepast the pelouse and then back up to the near end of the course andthe circus master had the stable boys turn them loose one afteranother so they could gallop by the stands on their way up to thepost and let everybody have a good look at them. They weren't at thepost hardly any time at all when the gong started and you could seethem way off across the infield all in a bunch starting on the firstswing like a lot of little toy horses. I was watching them throughthe glasses and Kzar was running well back with one of the baysmaking the pace. They swept down and around and came pounding pastand Kzar was way back when they passed us and this Kircubbin horse infront and going smooth. Gee it's awful when they go by you and thenyou have to watch them go farther away and get smaller and smallerand then all bunched up on the turns and then come around towardsinto the stretch and you feel like swearing and goddaming worse andworse. Finally they made the last turn and came into the straightawaywith this Kircubbin horse way out in front. Everybody was lookingfunny and saying "Kzar" in sort of a sick way and they poundingnearer down the stretch, and then something came out of the packright into my glasses like a horse-headed yellow streak and everybodybegan to yell "Kzar" as though they were crazy. Kzar came on fasterthan I'd ever seen anything in my life and pulled up on Kircubbinthat was going fast as any black horse could go with the jockflogging hell out of him with the gad and they were right dead neckand neck for a second but Kzar seemed going about twice as fast withthose great jumps and that head out—but it was while they were neckand neck that they passed the winning post and when the numbers wentup in the slots the first one was 2 and that meant Kircubbin had won.

I felt all trembly and funny inside, and then we were all jammed inwith the people going down stairs to stand in front of the boardwhere they'd post what Kircubbin paid. Honest watching the race I'dforgot how much my old man had bet on Kircubbin. I'd wanted Kzar towin so damned bad. But now it was all over it was swell to know wehad the winner.

"Wasn't it a swell race Dad?" I said to him.

He looked at me sort of funny with his derby on the back of his head,"George Gardner's a swell jockey all right", he said, "It sure took agreat jock to keep that Kzar horse from winning".

Of course I knew it was funny all the time. But my old man sayingthat right out like that sure took the kick all out of it for me andI didn't get the real kick back again ever, even when they posted thenumbers up on the board and the bell rang to pay off and we saw thatKircubbin paid 67.50 for 10. All around people were saying "PoorKzar. Poor Kzar!" And I thought, I wish I were a jockey and couldhave rode him instead of that son of a bitch. And that was funny,thinking of George Gardner as a son of a bitch because I'd alwaysliked him and besides he'd given us the winner, but I guess that'swhat he is all right.

My old man had a big lot of money after that race and he took tocoming into Paris oftener. If they raced at Tremblay he'd have themdrop him in town on their way back to Maisons and he and I'd sit outin front of the Café de la Paix and watch the people go by. It'sfunny sitting there. There's streams of people going by and all sortsof guys come up and want to sell you things and I loved to sit therewith my old man. That was when we'd have the most fun. Guys wouldcome by selling funny rabbits that jumped if you squeezed a bulb andthey'd come up to us and my old man would kid with them. He couldtalk French just like English and all those kind of guys knew himcause you can always tell a jockey—and then we always sat at the sametable and they got used to seeing us there. There were guys sellingmatrimonial papers and girls selling rubber eggs that when yousqueezed them a rooster came out of them and one old wormy lookingguy that went by with post cards of Paris showing them to everybody,and of course nobody ever bought any and then he would come back andshow the under side of the pack and they would all be smutty postcards and lots of people would dig down and buy them.

Gee I remember the funny people that used to go by. Girls aroundsupper time looking for somebody to take them out to eat and they'dspeak to my old man and he'd make some joke at them in French andthey'd pat me on the head and go on. Once there was an American womansitting with her kid daughter at the next table to us and they wereboth eating ices and I kept looking at the girl and she was awfullygood looking and I smiled at her and she smiled at me but that wasall that ever came of it because I looked for her mother and herevery day and I made up ways that I was going to speak to her and Iwondered if I got to know her if her mother would let me take her outto Auteuil or Tremblay but I never saw either of them again. Anyway Iguess it wouldn't have been any good anyway because looking back onit I remember the way I thought out would be best to speak to her wasto say, "Pardon me, but perhaps I can give you a winner at Enghientoday?" and after all maybe she would have thought I was a toutinstead of really trying to give her a winner.

We'd sit at the Café de la Paix, my old man and me, and we had a bigdrag with the waiter because my old man drank whisky and it cost fivefrancs and that meant a good tip when the saucers were counted up. Myold man was drinking more than I'd ever seen him, but he wasn'triding at all now and besides he said that whiskey kept his weightdown. But I noticed he was putting it on all right just the same.He'd busted away from his old gang out at Maisons and seemed to likejust sitting around on the boulevard with me. But he was droppingmoney every day at the track. He'd feel sort of doleful after thelast race, if he'd lost on the day, until we'd get to our table andhe'd have his first whiskey and then he'd be fine.

He'd be reading the Paris-Sport and he'd look over at me and say,"Where's your girl Joe?" to kid me on account I had told him aboutthe girl that day at the next table. And I'd get red but I likedbeing kidded about her. It gave me a good feeling. "Keep your eyepeeled for her Joe." he'd say, "She'll be back."

He'd ask me questions about things and some of the things I'd sayhe'd laugh. And then he'd get started talking about things. Aboutriding down in Egypt, or at St. Moritz on the ice before my motherdied, and about during the war when they had regular races down inthe south of France without any purses, or betting or crowd oranything just to keep the breed up. Regular races with the jocksriding hell out of the horses. Gee I could listen to my old man talkby the hour, especially when he'd had a couple or so of drinks. He'dtell me about when he was a boy in Kentucky and going coon huntingand the old days in the states before everything went on the bumthere. And he'd say, "Joe, when we've got a decent stake, you'regoing back there to the States and go to school."

"What've I got to go back there to go to school for when everything'son the bum there?" I'd ask him.

"That's different." he'd say and get the waiter over and pay the pileof saucers and we'd get a taxi to the Gare St. Lazare and get on thetrain out to Maisons.

One day at Auteuil after a selling steeplechase my old man bought inthe winner for 30.000 francs. He had to bid a little to get him butthe stable let the horse go finally and my old man had his permit andhis colors in a week. Gee I felt proud when my old man was an owner.He fixed it up for stable space with Charles Drake and cut out comingin to Paris and started his running and sweating out again and himand I were the whole stable gang. Our horse's name was Gillford, hewas Irish bred and a nice sweet jumper. My old man figured thattraining him and riding him himself he was a good investment. I wasproud of everything and I thought Gillford was as good a horse asKzar. He was a good solid jumper a bay, with plenty of speed on theflat if you asked him for it and he was a nice looking horse too.

Gee I was fond of him. The first time he started with my old man uphe finished third in a 2.500 meter hurdle race and when my old mangot off him, all sweating and happy in the place stall and went in toweigh I felt as proud of him as though it was the first race he'dever placed in. You see when a guy aint been riding for a long timeyou can't make yourself really believe that he has ever rode. Thewhole thing was different now cause down in Milan even big racesnever seemed to make any difference to my old man, if he won hewasn't ever excited or anything, and now it was so I couldn't hardlysleep the night before a race and I knew my old man was excited tooeven if he didn't show it. Riding for yourself makes an awfuldifference.

Second time Gillford and my old man started was a rainy Sunday atAuteuil in the Prix du Marat, a 4.500 meter steeplechase. As soon ashe'd gone out I beat it up in the stand with the new glasses my oldman had bought for me to watch them. They started way over at the farend of the course and there was some trouble at the barrier.Something with goggle blinders on was making a great fuss and rearingaround and busted the barrier once but I could see my old man in ourblack jacket with a white cross and a black cap sitting up onGillford and patting him with his hand. Then they were off in a jumpand out of sight behind the trees and the gong going for dear lifeand the pari mutuel wickets rattling down. Gosh I was so excited Iwas afraid to look at them but I fixed the glasses on the place wherethey would come out back of the trees and then out they came with theold black jacket going third and they all sailing over the jump likebirds. Then they went out of sight again and then they came poundingout and down the hill and all going nice and sweet and easy andtaking the fence smooth in a bunch and moving away from us all solid.Looked as though you could walk across on their backs they were allso bunched and going so smooth, Then they bellied over the big doubleBullfinch and something came down. I couldn't see who it was but in aminute the horse was up an galloping free and the field, all bunchedstill, sweeping around the long left turn into the straightaway. Theyjumped the stone wall and came jammed down the stretch toward the bigwater jump right in front of the stands. I saw them coming andhollered at my old man as he went by and he was leading by about alength and riding way out over and light as a monkey and they wereracing for the water jump. They took off over the big hedge of thewater jump in a pack and then there was a crash and two horses pulledsideways out off it and kept on going and three others were piled up.I couldn't see my old man anywhere. One horse knee-ed himself up andthe jock had hold of the bridle and mounted and went slamming onafter the place money. The other horse was up and away by himself,jerking his head and galloping with the bridle rein hanging and thejock staggered over to one side of the track against the fence. ThenGillford rolled over to one side off my old man and got up andstarted to run on three legs with his off hoof dangling and there wasmy old man lying there on the grass flat out with his face up andblood all over the side of his head. I ran down the stand and bumpedinto a jam of people and got to the rail and a cop grabbed me andheld me and two big stretcher bearers were going out after my old manand around on the other side of the course I saw three horses, strungway out, coming out of the trees and taking the jump.

My old man was dead when they brought him in and while a doctor waslistening to his heart with a thing plugged in his ears I heard ashot up the track that meant they'd killed Gillford. I lay downbeside my old man when they carried the stretcher into the hospitalroom and hung onto the stretcher and cried and cried and he looked sowhite and gone and so awfully dead and I couldn't help feeling thatif my old man was dead maybe they didn't need to have shot Gillford.His hoof might have got well. I don't know. I loved my old man somuch.

Then a couple of guys came in and one of them patted me on the backand then went over and looked at my old man and then pulled a sheetoff the cot and and spread it over him; and the other was telephoningin French for them to send the ambulance to take him out to Maisons.And I couldn't stop crying, crying and choking, sort of, and GeorgeGardner came in and sat down beside me on the floor and put his armaround me and says, "Come on Joe old boy. Get up and we'll go out andwait for the ambulance."

George and I went out to the gate and I was trying to stop bawlingand George wiped off my face with his handkerchief and we werestanding back a little ways while the crowd was going out of the gateand a couple of guys stopped near us while we were waiting for thecrowd to get through the gate and one of them was counting a bunch ofmutuel tickets and he said, "Well Butler got his all right."

The other guy said, "I don't give a good goddam if he did, the crook.He had it coming to him on the stuff he's pulled."

"I'll say he had," said the other guy and tore the bunch of ticketsin two.

And George Gardner looked at me to see if I'd heard and I had allright and he said, "Don't you listen to what those bums said Joe.Your old man was one swell guy."

But I don't know. Seems like when they get started they dont leave aguy nothing.



TEN POEMS



  MITRAIGLIATRICE

  The mills of the gods grind slowly;  But this mill  Chatters in mechanical staccato.  Ugly short infantry of the mind,  Advancing over difficult terrain,  Make this Corona  Their mitrailleuse.



  OKLAHOMA

  All of the Indians are dead  (a good Indian is a dead Indian)  Or riding in motor cars—  (the oil lands, you know, they're all rich)  Smoke smarts my eyes,  Cottonwood twigs and buffalo dung  Smoke grey in the teepee—  (or is it myopic trachoma)

  The prairies are long,  The moon rises,  Ponies  Drag at their pickets.  The grass has gone brown in the summer—  (or is it the hay crop failing)

  Pull an arrow out:  If you break it  The wound closes.  Salt is good too  And wood ashes.  Pounding it throbs in the night—  (or is it the gonorrhea)



OILY WEATHER

  The sea desires deep hulls—  It swells and rolls.  The screw churns a throb—  Driving, throbbing, progressing.  The sea rolls with love  Surging, caressing,  Undulating its great loving belly.  The sea is big and old—  Throbbing ships scorn it.



ROOSEVELT

  Workingmen believed  He busted trusts,  And put his picture in their windows.  "What he'd have done in France!"  They said.  Perhaps he would—  He could have died  Perhaps,  Though generals rarely die except in bed,  As he did finally.  And all the legends that he started in his life  Live on and prosper,  Unhampered now by his existence.



CAPTIVES

  Some came in chains  Unrepentent but tired.  Too tired but to stumble.  Thinking and hating were finished  Thinking and fighting were finished  Retreating and hoping were finished.  Cures thus a long campaign,  Making death easy.



CHAMPS D'HONNEUR

  Soldiers never do die well;         Crosses mark the places—  Wooden crosses where they fell,         Stuck above their faces.  Soldiers pitch and cough and twitch—         All the world roars red and black;  Soldiers smother in a ditch,         Choking through the whole attack.



RIPARTO D'ASSALTO

  Drummed their boots on the camion floor,  Hob-nailed boots on the camion floor.  Sergeants stiff,  Corporals sore.  Lieutenant thought of a Mestre whore—  Warm and soft and sleepy whore,  Cozy, warm and lovely whore;  Damned cold, bitter, rotten ride,  Winding road up the Grappa side.  Arditi on benches stiff and cold,  Pride of their country stiff and cold,  Bristly faces, dirty hides—  Infantry marches, Arditi rides.  Grey, cold, bitter, sullen ride—  To splintered pines on the Grappa side  At Asalone, where the truck-load died.



MONTPARNASSE

  There are never any suicides in the quarter among people one knows  No successful suicides.  A Chinese boy kills himself and is dead.  (they continue to place his mail in the letter rack at the Dome)  A Norwegian boy kills himself and is dead.  (no one knows where the other Norwegian boy has gone)  They find a model dead  alone in bed and very dead.  (it made almost unbearable trouble for the concierge)  Sweet oil, the white of eggs, mustard and water, soap suds  and stomach pumps rescue the people one knows.  Every afternoon the people one knows can be found at the café.



ALONG WITH YOUTH

  A porcupine skin,  Stiff with bad tanning,  It must have ended somewhere.  Stuffed horned owl  Pompous  Yellow eyed;  Chuck-wills-widow on a biassed twig  Sooted with dust.  Piles of old magazines,  Drawers of boy's letters  And the line of love  They must have ended somewhere.  Yesterday's Tribune is gone  Along with youth  And the canoe that went to pieces on the beach  The year of the big storm  When the hotel burned down  At Seney, Michigan.



CHAPTER HEADING

  For we have thought the longer thoughts          And gone the shorter way.  And we have danced to devils' tunes,          Shivering home to pray;  To serve one master in the night,          Another in the day.